Classic Cheesecake Recipe
Ingredients:
250g (9 oz) digestive biscuits (graham crackers)
100g (7 tbsp) unsalted butter, melted
600g (21 oz) cream cheese, softened at room temperature
200g (1 cup) granulated sugar
4 large eggs
1 tsp vanilla extract
Zest of 1 lemon (optional)
250ml (1 cup) sour cream
Fresh berries or fruit compote, for serving (optional)
Instructions:
Preheat Oven: Preheat your oven to 160째C (320째F) for a fan-assisted oven or 180째C (350째F) for a conventional oven. Grease a 9-inch (23 cm) springform pan with butter or non-stick cooking spray.

Prepare Crust:

Place the digestive biscuits (graham crackers) in a food processor and pulse until fine crumbs form.
Transfer the crumbs to a bowl, add the melted butter, and mix until well combined.
Press the mixture evenly into the bottom of the prepared springform pan. Use the back of a spoon or a flat-bottomed glass to compact the crust.
Chill the crust in the refrigerator while you prepare the filling.
Make Filling:

In a large mixing bowl, beat the cream cheese and sugar together until smooth and creamy.
Add the eggs one at a time, beating well after each addition.
Mix in the vanilla extract and lemon zest (if using).
Finally, fold in the sour cream until fully incorporated.
Assemble and Bake:

Pour the cream cheese mixture over the chilled crust in the springform pan.
Smooth the top with a spatula to ensure an even surface.
Bake:

Place the cheesecake in the preheated oven and bake for 45-50 minutes, or until the edges are set but the center is slightly jiggly.
Turn off the oven and leave the cheesecake inside with the door slightly ajar for about 1 hour to cool gradually.
Remove the cheesecake from the oven and let it cool completely at room temperature.
Once cooled, cover and refrigerate the cheesecake for at least 4 hours or preferably overnight.
Serve:

Before serving, run a knife around the edges of the pan to loosen the cheesecake. Carefully remove the sides of the springform pan.
Slice and serve the cheesecake chilled, topped with fresh berries or fruit compote if desired.